05/06/2026:

I've just used chatgpt to put together a trend study. I don't understand large portions of the code, but i can do a bit of problem solving. Maybe I need to redo py4e and
some other python courses to get up to speed.

Anyway, I set the initial MTOW as 20kg, primarily based on this: https://seabee.no/mugin-2-pro-2930mm

I want the drone to feel heavy and serious rather than a toy. If not for that, I could have gone with something lighter that conformed beter to the trend showcased
by the data.

10/06/2026:
It's been a while. 

I've been working and I took some time to start learning python more properly for this project since I realised while performing the trend study - with chatgpt- that my 
skills there are severly lacking.

Around the same time, I realised that I don't have enough time to design the drone with a custom electrical solution since I have no foundations in electronics and it's 
not as though this is all I do - or want to do -  day in and day out. 

For now, I will use my degree to design and build all the aeromechanical components. The electronics wil be off the shelf components. 

In future iterations, the electronics will be custom made and custom built. Embedded systems and user-facing systems will also be cutom made.

But that is for iterations later in the future.

13/06/2026:
I'm reading raymer. Today is a 'take notes' day where I decide the work I need to do when I have to do when it's time to put the equations in a python script and get some
numbers.

Empy weight will consist of the airframe and electrical systems. The fuel weight will be the weight of the battery so I need to calculate a rough estimate. The payload
will be the size of the camera module, so i need a value for that too. 

I guess we're designing for a simple mission profile here and since the weight doesn't change as the battery is used. Because battery weight is constant, making a simple
estimation of the seize i need for the distance i want at the speed I want to travel at a specific wattage should be enough for now.

It would be helpful to look into the following battery metrics at some point during initial design: energy consumption, efficiency, electric range. 

Those should help me decide how large the battery would end up being(in terms of charge held and physical space in the drone).

Tasks for the next session:
- Make a conceptual sketch
- Revise MTOW/design weight
- Decide mission range if not already satisfactory
- Estimate L/D from aspect ratio/wetted area. This is a propeller aircraft
- Find assumptions for the aircraft equipmrnt weights (wiring, airframe, camera and sensor modules, etc). a good estimate might be 20-30% the MTOW or design weight
- Perform thye first full sizing of the drone
- Maybe do some range studies per Raymer's suggestions at the end of chapter 1

15/06/2026:
I'm very quickly realising that the Raymer sizing method is very dependent on the idea that the aircraft being designed is powered by traditiona fossil fuels. This 
assumption relies on the idea that the weight of the craft decreases the longer it is in operation. That is not how batteries work. But maybe I'm wrong. Maybe there's
some quantum superposition bs that overcomplicates things for me.

But I'm pretty sure that's not the case...

I'll need to take a bit more time to research the batteries a bit more and find relationships based around batteries that mirror Raymer's calculations for cruise,
loiter, etc. L/D will be fine to laeve as is, since it's based on aircraft configuration and overall geometry.

I revised the design weight down to 15kg, by looking at the trend study again and using my gut? Hopefully it works out and I can explain why in a later note.

The new + revised tasks for later today are:
- Do a range trade study using battery-specific formulae
- Calculate drone endurance based on battery-specific formula(not sure if range should be done first or not)
- Perform first full sizing

05/07/2026:
Okay, I'm back now - and it's midnight. the heatwaves and other things took my attention away temporarily.

In the time I've been away, I did a bit of research into the materials and manufacturing that may be truly viable for this project. I've landed on 3D printing since I can rapidly
prototype components and iterate fast at a relativel low cost. Since the airframe and parts will be custom madse with bespoke dimensions for the most part, injection moulding, subtractive manufacturing etc would cost too much in tooling and setup - I don't have the time or money to dedicate to this.

With that being said, I think it would be prudent to revise the MTOW/design weight, so I need to take a look  at the range study again/ do another one - see previous tasks.
My gut says to start at around 5kg and size the craft for this new weight and the old weight of 15kg, iterate the sizing process for both until the final weight settles somewhere more reasonable.


